# Phenomics-Enabled-Digital-Lodging
R scripts and supporting data for phenomics enabled genetic dissection of lodging in wheat. 

## Introduction
This repository contains scripts and supporting data neccessary to reproduce my work on digital quantification of crop lodging through unmanned aerial systems (UAS) or drone based phenotyping in wheat. This work is currently under consideration as a journal manuscript, and is part of my PhD dissertation at Kansas State University (Under the guidance of Dr. Jesse Poland). The raw data associated with this project can be accessed here: https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.6151127. I'm currently cleaning up some of the scripts so it will be made available in batches. Following are the project updates:

- 10/26/2018: Added function to estimate plot-level mixture normal parameters from digital elevation models. 

## Acknowledgments
We thank the support staff at Borlaug Institute for South Asia in India including Yogesh Gautam, Manish Kumar, Avadhesh Kumar; CIMMYT Pakistan Majid Nadeem and Dr. Makhdoom Hussain; and CIMMYT Mexico Dr. Suchismita Mondal.  We appreciate the assistance of colleagues at Kansas State University including Shuangye Wu, Mark Lucas, Richard Brown, Haley Ahlers, Jared Crain, and Byron Evers; Scott Chapman, CSIRO, Australia.  This work was supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF) Plant Genome Research Program (PGRP) (Grant No. IOS-1238187), the Kansas Wheat Commission and Kansas Wheat Alliance, the US Agency for International Development (USAID) Feed the Future Innovation Lab for Applied Wheat Genomics (Cooperative Agreement No. AID-OAA-A-13-00051), USAID Agricultural Innovation Program, and by the NIFA International Wheat Yield Partnership (Grant No. 2017-67007-25933/project accession no. 1011391) from the USDA National Institute of Food and Agriculture.  The opinions expressed herein are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the U.S. Agency for International Development, the U.S. National Science Foundation, or the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
